Clarification for CAGG refresh policies (#4145)
timescale/docs: use-timescale/continuous-aggregates/refresh-policies.md

</Procedure>

The policy in this example ensures that all data in the continuous aggregate is up to date with the hypertable, except for data written within the last hour of wall-clock time. The policy also does not refresh the last time bucket of the continuous aggregate.

> Since the policy in this example runs once every hour (`schedule_interval`) while also excluding data within the most recent hour (`end_offset`), it takes up to 2 hours for data written to the hypertable to be reflected in the continuous aggregate. Backfill, which is outside the most recent hour of data, will be visible after up to 1 hour depending on when the policy last ran when the data was written.

Reviewer: Nit:
```suggestion
Since the policy in this example runs once every hour (`schedule_interval`) while also excluding data within the most recent hour (`end_offset`), it takes up to 2 hours for data written to the hypertable to be reflected in the continuous aggregate. Backfills, which are usually outside the most recent hour of data, will be visible after up to 1 hour depending on when the policy last ran when the data was written.
```

> Since the policy in this example runs once every hour (`schedule_interval`) while also excluding data within the most recent hour (`end_offset`), it takes up to 2 hours for data written to the hypertable to be reflected in the continuous aggregate. Backfill, which is outside the most recent hour of data, will be visible after up to 1 hour depending on when the policy last ran when the data was written.

Reviewer: Maybe we can have some sort of formula: give the min and max that you want and we produce the schedule interval and end offset. It is roughly something like this: if you want to have data valid in the range `[oldest, newest)`, we have

    end_offset := newest
    refresh_interval := newest - oldest

Author: Thank you! We'll be updating those docs for clarity in general - I'll keep this in mind with maybe a different, better example.

</Procedure>

The policy in this example ensures that all the data in the continuous aggregate

> is up to date with the hypertable, except for anything written within the last hour. This means that the actual `INSERT` or `UPDATE` of the data falls within the last hour, regardless of its timestamp. The policy also does not refresh the last time bucket of the continuous aggregate.

Reviewer 2: Not sure I understand the thing about all the inserted and updated data falling within the last hour regardless of timestamp.

Looking at the policy, it seems to:

- Run once every hour
- when it runs, it materializes all buckets with outdated data except those that fall within the last hour

Author: Ah sorry, here is the discussion we had about this:  https://iobeam.slack.com/archives/CEKV5LMK3/p1748335245838269 Does this add context?

Reviewer 2: I guess I am not understanding what this bit means:

```
This means that the actual `INSERT` or `UPDATE` of the data falls within the last hour, regardless of its timestamp
```
I think the confusion here is the distinction of wall clock time vs data-timestamp time. In the above sentence it almost sounds like inserts and updates are written to the last hour bucket regardless of the timestamp. 

I think we need to be more clear in order to not confuse wall-clock time with data time.

For example:

Since the policy in this example runs once every hour (`schedule_interval`) while also excluding data within the most recent hour (`end_offset`), it takes up to 2 hours for data written to the hypertable to be reflected in the continuous aggregate. Backfill, which is outside the most recent hour of data, will be visible after up to 1 hour depending on when the policy last ran when the data was written.
